<div>
<!-- Generated by cxt.py from README.cxt -->
<h1>cxt: text markup for civilization</h1>
<blockquote><b>Note:</b> This file is created using cxt. To see the source view README.cxt in this directory.</blockquote>
It should not take more than a few minutes to know how to read and write documentation.<p>cxt is an ultra-simple markup language similar in spirit 
<span><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBCode">BBCode</a></span>
, designed to be as easy as possible to parse (for computers _and_ humans) while delivering any features necessary to the 
<span><a href="https://civboot.org">CivBoot</a></span>
 project.<p>cxt is designed to:
<ul><li>Make document writing easy.</li><li>Make document parsing easy.</li><li>Make reading of raw (text) documents easy.</li><li>Make consuming structured data from documents easy.</li></ul>
cxt enables (for example) writing a command line utility&#x27;s documentation as a 
<code>.ct</code>
 file, parsing it and exporting it into a structed data format (aka json) and injesting that to generate code for the args structure of a program.<p>
<b>This repository is WIP</b>
. Current progress:
<ul><li>✅ parsing text</li><li>✅ parsing code</li><li>✅ parsing lists</li><li>✅ export above to html or markdown-embedded html</li><li>✅ quotes (markdown <code>&gt;</code>)</li><li>✅ set/get &quot;variables&quot;</li><li>✅ checkboxes</li><li>✅ comments (<code>!</code>)</li><li>🔲 parsing tables</li></ul>
<blockquote> <b>Note:</b> &quot;cxt&quot; is pronounced as either &quot;<i>C-X-T</i>&quot; or &quot;<i>text</i>&quot; with a &#x27;c&#x27;, at your discression. </blockquote>


<h2>Example</h2>
<b>Inline code:</b>
<p>
<pre>Some `inline code`, more [#]inline code[#].<br></pre>
<p>Some 
<code>inline code</code>
, more 
<code>inline code</code>
.<p>
<b>Formatting:</b>
<p>
<pre>This sentance has [b]bold[b] text, [i]italic[i] text, and<br>[b][i]bold italic[i][b] text.<br></pre>
<p>This sentance has 
<b>bold</b>
 text, 
<i>italic</i>
 text, and 
<b><i>bold italic</b></i>
 text.<p>
<b>Linking:</b>
<p>
<pre>A url to [t r=http://civboot.org]CivBoot[/],<br>or displaying and linking the full url:<br>[r]http://civboot.org[/]<br><br>Alternatively, you can use set/get: @CivBoot<br><br>You can even use [@] for attributes like `r` (ref),<br>i.e. [t r=@civbootUrl]check out civboot![/]<br><br>[t set=CivBoot r=https://civboot.org]CivBoot[/]<br>[r set=civbootUrl]http://civboot.org[/]<br></pre>
<p>A url to 
<span><a href="http://civboot.org">CivBoot</a></span>
, or displaying and linking the full url: 
<span><a href="http://civboot.org">http://civboot.org</a></span>
<p>Alternatively, you can use set/get: 
<span><a href="https://civboot.org">CivBoot</a></span>
<p>You can even use @ for attributes like 
<code>r</code>
 (ref), i.e. 
<span><a href="http://civboot.org">check out civboot!</a></span>
<p>

<b>Lists:</b>
<p>
<ul><li>bullet point</li><li>second bullet point</li></ul>
<pre>[+]<br> * bullet point<br> * second bullet point<br>[/]<br></pre>
<p>
<b>Numbered Lists:</b>
<p>
<pre>[+]<br> 1. first item<br> 2. second item<br> 4. fourth item?<br>[/]<br></pre>
<p>
<ol><li value="1">first item</li><li value="2">second item</li><li value="4">fourth item?</li></ol>
<b>Sub Lists:</b>
<p>
<pre>[+]<br> * Bullet point [+]<br>   * Sub bullet point<br> [/]<br> * Second bullet point<br>[/]<br></pre>
<p>
<ul><li>Bullet point <ul><li>Sub bullet point</li></ul></li><li>Second bullet point</li></ul>
<b>Checkboxes:</b>
<p>
<pre>[+]<br> [X] done item<br> [ ] undone item [+]<br>   [X] indented done item<br>   [ ] indented undone item<br> [/]<br>[/]<br></pre>
<p>
<ul><li>✅ done item</li><li>🔲 undone item <ul><li>✅ indended done item</li><li>🔲 indended undone item</li></ul></li></ul>
<b>Developer-only Comments</b>
<p>
<pre>The following comment is not rendered...<br>[t !]Any block with a ! attr is a comment.[/]<br></pre>
<p>The following comment is not rendered... 

<p>
<h2>Special Character Escapes</h2>
<pre>This is a backtick: [`]<br><br>Doubling a bracket escapes it. [[ This is in literal brackets ]]<br><br>An empty brackets like &quot;[]&quot; does nothing.<br>[]   This is useful for leading whitespace.<br></pre>
<p>This is a backtick: `<p>Doubling a bracket escapes it. [ This is in literal brackets ]<p>An empty brackets like &quot;&quot; does nothing.    This is useful for leading whitespace.<p>
<pre>Empty brackets at the end of the line<br>cause it to continue.<br>This is useful for very-very-very-very-very-[<br>]very long words.<br>(notice: no spaces before last &quot;very&quot;)<br></pre>
<p>Empty brackets at the end of the line cause it to continue. This is useful for very-very-very-very-very-very long words. (notice: no spaces before last &quot;very&quot;)<p>
<h2>Table (not yet implemented)</h2>
<pre>[table]<br>[h] Col1 | Col2 | Col3 [/]<br>[r] a1   | a2   | a3   [/]<br>[r] multi| b2   | b3<br>    line |      |<br>    row  |      |      [/]<br>[/]<br></pre>
<p>
<ul><li>The delimiter can be specified with <code>del</code>. Example: <code>[table del=;]</code></li><li>Cell values are stipped (leading/trailing whitespace removed). If you want to force it, you can use <code>[t] my cell value [/]</code></li></ul>
<h2>Full List of Brackets</h2>
Special characters 
<pre> [[   literal open bracket<br> ]]   literal close bracket<br> [`]  literal backtick<br> `inline code` (same as markdown)<br> [c]inline code[c]<br> [#...]inline code[#...]<br></pre>
<p>Other literals:
<ul><li><code>[n]</code> literal newline <code>\n</code></li><li><code>[s]</code> literal space character (used rarely)</li><li><code>[]</code> ignored (sometimes used if leading spaces ignored, i.e. in lists)</li></ul>
Text markup state: these toggle the current text state (not turned off with 
<code>[/]</code>
: 
<ul><li><code>[i]</code> italic</li><li><code>[b]</code> bold</li><li><code>[~]</code> strikethrough</li><li><code>[u]</code> underline</li></ul>
Containers:
<ul><li><code>[!]</code> comment. Inner text not rendered.</li><li><code>[t]</code> starts a &quot;text container&quot; where attributes can be applied.</li><li><code>[r]</code> reference container.</li><li><code>[h1]</code> heading 1</li><li><code>[h2]</code> heading 2</li><li><code>[h3]</code> heading 3</li><li><code>[... mark=markName]</code> creates a mark that can be linked with <code>[r]</code></li><li><code>[+]</code> starts a list. The first non-whitespace character determines the list type (<code>*</code>, <code>1.</code>, <code>[ ]</code>, <code>[X]</code>)</li><li><code>[table]</code> table containing a header <code>[h]...[/]</code> and rows <code>[r]...[/]</code>, delinited by a <code>del</code> (default <code>|</code>)</li></ul>
Attributes are added in 
<code>attr=foo</code>
 form:
<ul><li><code>!</code> at end causes item to be &quot;hidden&quot;</li><li>mark: attribute which creates a mark that can be linked <code>[l]</code> to.</li><li>r: works like <code>[r]</code> but can be used like: <code>[t r=foo]...[/]</code></li><li>otherwise it is a &quot;custom&quot; attribute, some tools process these (i.e. <code>lang</code> for code, etc)</li></ul>
<h2>Contributing</h2>
When opening a PR to submit code to this repository you must include the following disclaimer in your first commit message:<p>
<pre>I &lt;author&gt; assent to license this and all future contributions to this project<br>under the dual licenses of the UNLICENSE or MIT license listed in the<br>`UNLICENSE` and `README.md` files of this repository.<br></pre>
<p>
<h2>LICENSING</h2>
This work is part of the Civboot project and therefore primarily exists for educational purposes. Attribution to the authors and project is appreciated but not necessary.<p>Therefore this body of work is licensed using the UNLICENSE unless otherwise specified at the beginning of the source file.<p>If for any reason the UNLICENSE is not valid in your jurisdiction or project, this work can be singly or dual licensed at your discression with the MIT license below.<p>
<pre>Copyright 2022 Garrett Berg<br><br>Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of<br>this software and associated documentation files (the &quot;Software&quot;), to deal in<br>the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to<br>use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies<br>of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do<br>so, subject to the following conditions:<br><br>The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all<br>copies or substantial portions of the Software.<br><br>THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED &quot;AS IS&quot;, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR<br>IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,<br>FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE<br>AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER<br>LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,<br>OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE<br>SOFTWARE.<br></pre>
</div>
